two major changes in the health insurance industry in the last 2 months.  First
Zero GST.  Second, the conflict between hospitals and health
insurance companies.
We will understand both these issues but what is
most important, we will also understand
what impact these two issues are going to have on your and our lives.
Apart from these
two issues, we will cover all the aspects of health insurance
that you should know
before buying health insurance.
Neither an insurance
agent nor a bank employee can give you this information.  And
yes, based on my personal research, at the
end of the video I will tell you my top three picks
which are currently at the top in the industry.  First of all let's
talk
about both the issues.  Issue One Hospital
Insurance Bhasad.  Now friend, this is a bit bad
news.  Let us look at this first.   There has been
a fight going on between private hospitals and health insurance companies for a long time.
Now due to this,
many health insurance companies like Niva
BuP, Bajaj, Alliance, CK Insurance,
Star Insurance etc. have stopped cashless treatment in many
big hospitals like Max and other such
private hospitals.
Due to this,
many users created a ruckus on social media platforms
like Twitter and Instagram.
Maybe you might have seen it too.  Meaning, if
you want to get treatment in a private hospital, then
you will have to pay the bill first.
After that you will have to run for reimbursement.
Imagine if someone is in this situation in an emergency
and does not get the cashless facility,
what will be his condition?  Now mostly
this issue was due to cost of
treatment, room rent etc. and
due to this there was a lot of disconnect between the hospitals and the
insurance companies.
So after a long discussion,
an agreement has been reached between HPI which is a body representing the private hospitals and health insurance companies.
So basically now there should be no problem in cashless claims.  In
fact, health
insurance companies have also said that
if any hospital denies cashless treatment, then the
claim amount of the policy holder will be
transferred to him in advance
so that there is no problem in settling the bill.
So basically the customer will
not face any problem, what was bad news has now
become good news.  Issue to 0% GST on
health insurance.  Now friend, this is good news
and it is directly affecting your pocket.
GST on health insurance has now become 0%,
which was earlier 18%.  So basically, if you were
paying a premium of Rs 300 per year,
earlier 18% GST was added to it.
But after September 22, this premium will reduce to
around ₹25,400.
Now friend, this is your direct profit of ₹4500.
And the good news is that
this benefit will be
passed on to the customers and payers by most of the companies.
So friend, you will have to pay a considerably lower premium for
your health insurance.  So
friend, effectively both will be good news.
But most people do not know
what they should look for before taking health insurance and which
health insurance they should take.  But do you
know what the problem is?  You are watching the channel of B's ​​benefits.
You are watching our video
and you get answers to all your questions here.
So first of all let us see
what questions may come to your mind before taking health insurance?  And
what all do you have to consider?  The first question is do I even
need health insurance?  This question
comes to the mind of those people who are
in corporate jobs and have a
group insurance.
They often feel that they already have insurance.
What is the need to take another insurance
?  I mean why waste money.  But is
that insurance sufficient for you?   Is the
cover amount sufficient for you
?  Are all diseases
covered in it?  And when you leave your job, you
switch jobs, you get fired
, then what will happen to that insurance?  At
the top of it.  If you retire at the
age of 55 to 60, will
you have that insurance?  And at that time,
most probably all the companies can refuse to give you insurance.  If
you get any illness, any problem, any
need then it can be very tough for you.
So it makes a lot of sense to have an
individual health insurance while you are
fit so that when you need it,
you do not suffer if you ever fall ill.  Second,
individual versus family floater.  Now
suppose you want a policy but you are
confused about which policy you should take.
Often people get confused on this.
Individual vs. Family Floater.  Now
in Individual
you take policy for different members, in Family Floater there is
a shared pool of all the family members.
And the premium in individual is
expensive.  Friend, there is a very simple
answer to this.  If everyone in your family is
healthy.  If the age of the eldest member is
less than 60, then you can take a family floater.
But if there is any member in your family
who has any disease and whose
health is poor, then you should
not take a family floater policy with him/her.
Because because of them your premium will
increase.  You should take a separate individual policy for that member.
And
you can take a family floater policy with the remaining members.
Third type of health
insurance top up vs super top up.  Now
friend, now we understand which
insurance we should take, individual or
family float.  But there are many varieties in this also
like top up and super
top up.  Now there is a huge difference between Super Top Up and Top Up.
But if we
understand it in simple words, then Super
Topup is better than Topup.  Let me
explain.  Both top-up and super top-up have
a deductible limit.
Deductible limit means that the
money up to this limit will be deducted from your pocket.   Up
to the deductible limit.  After that
your company will cover whatever it is.  Now suppose
you have a top up of Rs 20 lakh in which Rs 500
is deductible, then you will have to pay the first Rs 500 of the medical bill
from your pocket.  The
money after that will be covered by your top up policy.
If your second hospitalization bill in a year is Rs
1 lakh, then the
first one of Rs 500 will be deducted from your pocket.
After that your top-up policy will be activated.
In case of super top-up, the
process is the
same for your first hospitalization.  In the process of your second and third time
hospitalization, the Rs
50,000 that you had to pay from your pocket earlier,
you do not have to pay that amount in this case.  Which is why
Super Topup is better.  But here I would like to
add one thing that top up and
super top up may not be a very good idea
for you.  Because if you have any disease
like BP or diabetes.  This top up or
super top up may be your rejection.
Plus, your top-up and super top-up do
not cover many things.
Such as no claim bonus, pre and post
hospitalization expenses etc.  So
instead of taking a low base plan plus a
high topup and super topup it is advisable
to take one good base plan with a good amount.
But if you still want to take it then you
can take Super Topup which we do not
recommend.  And make sure that your base
plan and super top-up are
from the same insurance company so that you do
not face any problem in making a claim.  Fourth, How Much Somewhere Do
You Need?  Dude, I have often seen people
stopping at a cover of Rs 5 to 10 lakh.
But do you think that is sufficient?
Nowadays, the bill for any serious illness in metro city hospitals
easily
crosses Rs 5 to 7 lakh.  If there is
any illness in your family or you live in Tier 1
where inflation is already so high and the
cost of medical bills is already
high, then you should easily have a cover of Rs 15 to 20
lakh.  Or look
here, we do not have to look at the
premium.  We have to look at the potential
risk.  Once the disease occurs, all the
savings are eaten up.  So in my opinion,
if you live in Tier 1 then
you should have a cover of Rs 20 to 25 lakh per person
and if you live in Tier 2 then
you should have a cover of Rs 10 to 15 lakh per person.
Fifth Key Factors to Keep in Mind
Before Buying a Health Insurance.  Now, even
after the sum assured, there are still many
factors that you should keep in mind
before you go and finalize your
health insurance policy.  And this is your
ultimate checklist.  First is claim settlement
ratio and incurred claim ratio.  It is very important to know
what is the claim settlement ratio and
what is the unclaimed claim ratio of which company.  It is
also very important to know how quickly that company settles the claim and for how much amount it settles the claim.
The higher the better because in the end
you should get money and not just the policy.   An
income claim ratio of between 60 and 80% is
considered ideal.  Second Network
Hospitals.  Is your Prefit Hospitals
on the list?  In how many
hospitals is cashless facility available?  Because you would
not want to run
here and there for cashless transactions in an emergency situation.
Third waiting periods.  Now friend, there are some
waiting periods in all the policies.
Initial waiting period for 30
days.  Specific illnesses have a waiting time for
certain slow-growing illnesses.   There is a
waiting period for pre-existing illness.
Now friend,
you will not have to keep all the waiting periods in mind.
And you must keep in mind
that generally the waiting period for your pre-existing illness is
two to three years.
Fourth copayment clause.  Is
your policy paid?  This means that
you will have to pay some part of the bill from your pocket.
Irrely you should not go with such
policies.  Basically you should go with those policies
which ensure that your bill is 100%
covered by the insurance company.
Fifth is sublimity.  Is there any limit on room rent, ICU
charges or specific treatment
?  If your cover is Rs 50 lakh
but your room rent limit is Rs 5,000 per day,
then you will have to pay the remaining room rent
from your pocket.
Sixth Restriction Benefit.  Does your
policy have a registration benefit?  If
your sum assured gets exhausted in a year, does
it get automatically restored
for the subsequent claims in the
same year? This can be a very important add-on
and is especially important for family floater
plans because if
multiple family members get hospitalized in a year, it
often happens
that the sum assured ends up becoming more than sufficient because
of this benefit.  Seventh is NCB i.e.
No Claim Bonus.  If you have not made a claim in a year, then
your sum assured
either increases in the next year or
your premium decreases.  This bonus
incentivizes you to stay healthy.   It's
quite confusing, isn't it?  There was too much infection.
You are wondering
what should I do with all this information?  Can
somebody simplify this for me and tell me
which health insurance policy I should buy?
That somebody is dato insurance.  Ditto
is the insurance company back by zeroda that
will do all the hard work for you from finding
the best policy to policy insurance and
making sure you are right on track with your
premiums.  Ditto will do basically everything
and yes, absolutely free.  All you have to do is
book a free consultation call with Ditto.
Within three days, you will be allocated an advisor
who will do all the hard work for you.
And yes just because consultation call
is free.  This does not mean that you will
start receiving spam messages.  Unlike Other
Companies Do has a spam-free policy and
has a rating of 4.9 out of five on
Google Reviews based on 10,000 plus
reviews.  And another special thing is DTO.
Since Do deals with almost all the
insurers on a daily basis, they kind of have a
reputation with them which can be a huge advantage at the time of claim.
And
because only Team Ditto will get your claim done.
So your process will become easier and
smoother.  Ditto will do all this
for you absolutely free.  All you need to do is
book a free consultation call with dates, the
link to which is in our description.
In the beginning of the video, I told you
that we will tell you our top three picks
based on our research considering everything.
We will also show you the premium after the
GST change.  Now these premiums are for Rs
50 lakh base plan and this is for a 30 year old
male non smoker living in Delhi.   The
minimum base policy in ICICM X Protect is
your One CR.  So this
premium is for a one CR policy.  Now the
remaining premiums are shown as per your policy of Rs 50 lakh.
If you are
still confused, if you still don't understand
which is the best health insurance policy for you, I would
highly recommend you to get in touch with Deter
Insurance.  They will do all the hard work for you
and they will do everything for free.  All you need to do is
book a free consultation call with them.   The
link to which is in our description.
Click on the link and book your call today.
Share this video with your family and
friends, and until then, be KF.